COPPERWYRE

This is a native GitHub Pages/Jekyll blog using the supported Minima theme.
Jekyll supplies automatic post listings and RSS. Local home and post layouts
extend Minima with cover artwork, image thumbnails, and original-source links.
Local includes and assets/blog.css match the dark, red-accented style of
Defender's Window. The blog uses a casual, personal introduction from Bertug.

ADD A POST

Create _posts/YYYY-MM-DD-short-title.md in GitHub's browser editor or locally.
Use this front matter, then write normal Markdown:

---
title: "Your post title"
date: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS +0200
description: "A short summary for search engines and sharing."
excerpt: "A short summary for the homepage."
---

Your opening paragraph.

## A section heading

Your text.

Use the correct local UTC offset for the date: Berlin is +0200 in summer
and +0100 in winter. Layout and author are inherited from _config.yml.
File names control URLs, so avoid renaming a published post without a redirect.

The two imported LinkedIn articles are HTML posts with front matter. Their
published text, publication timestamps, emphasis, images, captions, and links
are preserved. LinkedIn tracking parameters and interface elements are omitted.
For imports, display_date preserves the date shown by the original publisher
when its timezone differs from Berlin. Keep date as the exact publication
timestamp; feeds and machine-readable metadata use that timestamp.
Jekyll supports HTML and Markdown posts together; new posts can be Markdown.
For an unpublished working copy, keep it in _drafts and preview with --drafts.

ARTICLE IMAGES

Store artwork under assets/articles, not on an external image host.
Add optional front matter:
  image:
    path: /assets/articles/your-cover.png
    width: 1280
    height: 720
    alt: "A brief description of the artwork."
  cover_caption: "Original image credit or caption, if any."
  source_url: "https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/your-original-article/"

The image appears on the homepage, article page, and social sharing metadata.
Inline images belong in the article body with captions and descriptive alt
text. Preserve their natural aspect ratio; link to the image for full-size
viewing. Do not rely on expiring LinkedIn media URLs in published content.

LOCAL PREVIEW

Install Ruby and Bundler, then:
  bundle install
  bundle exec jekyll serve --host 127.0.0.1 --port 4175

Open http://localhost:4175/. Stop the preview with Ctrl+C.
Production build:
  bundle exec jekyll build

PUBLISHING

The intended destination is https://blog.copperwyre.com.
The existing Pages repository is Bertug/bertug.github.io.
After reviewing and approving all public content, merge the blog changes
to main. Pages is configured to build from main, at the repository root.

DNS record: CNAME, name blog, target bertug.github.io.
The repository's CNAME contains blog.copperwyre.com.
Enable Enforce HTTPS once GitHub has provisioned the certificate.
Do not alter the defenderswindow DNS record or the defenders-window repo.

The old site-builder export remains in Git. Its files are excluded from
the Jekyll build rather than deleted.
Do not commit raw honeypot logs, IP addresses, credentials, or private notes.
